German Chancellor Olaf Schultz has
warned Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu against his plans for a ground
offens of in thefa the two leaders met
in West Jerusalem Schultz urged
Netanyahu to protect civilians in Gaza
and highlighted the need for desperately
needed humanitarian Aid he said the
world cannot stand by as Palestinians
risk
starvation the longer the war last the
higher the number of Civilian casualties
Rises the more desperate the situ ation
of the people in Gaza become the more
this begs the question no matter how
important the goal can it justify such
terribly high costs or are there other
ways to achieve your
goal take the ground of fastive in
Rafa the military logic is one
consideration but there is a
humanitarian logic as well how should
more than 1.5 million people be
protected where should they
go we've just had uh uh I think a very
serious conversation an important
conversation among friends uh you
express your concern for two things one
protecting civilians and second uh
provision of uh humanitarian Aid and I
explain that these are our concerns as
well uh because we agree with both
goals meanwhile the EU commission
president Ursula Von delion has echoed
schulz's sentiments during a visit to to
Cairo we are all extremely concerned
about the war in Gaza and the unfolding
catastrophic humanitarian
situation Gaza is facing famine and it
is critical to achieve an agreement on
the ceasefire R now that frees the
hostages and allows more humanitarian
Aid to
reacha and we are very concerned about
the risks of a full scale offensive in
Raa that to be devastated for of
Civilian
po let's bring in Madan Bashar alaz a
senior political analyst he's joining us
live from Paris good to see you mwan so
strong comments on the face of it from
Schultz from velan but do you think
they'll put any real pressure on
Netanyahu well listen to what Netanyahu
just said I'm sure our viewers around
the world have heard what I heard
Netanyahu is of course concerned for
civilian life in Gaza and of course he
is concerned for humanitarian Aid to
Gaza I mean if that's not comical I
don't know what is of course it's also
tragic that the Israeli Prime Minister
can continue to lie despite being told
once and again by his Western allies
from Germany Brussels and Washington
that's something that I give that that
the price is too high that the scenes
are too disturbing for Western public
opinion that Palestinian death is no
longer workable uh as a policy but again
when you listen to vendor line saying we
cannot stand by as children
die
really five months
20,000 children and women killed and
vandaline stands there and says we
cannot stand by while children die while
they were complicit for five months in
the killing of Palestinian children it's
really astounding it's shocking it's
deceptive it's a circus what we see
happening in Cairo and T Aviv with
Western allies pretending to be
humanitarian in this regard why do you
think they make are making these
statements and how much do you think
that Netanyahu is emboldened by the fact
that you know Schultz said Israel has
our full support but then said the cost
of the war has been too high on
Palestinians which is you know sounds a
lot like what US President Joe Biden
said earlier this month when asked about
red lines Why the mixed
messages that's exactly what Biden has
said European leaders are simply parting
what the American leaders are saying
they're not inventing the wheel they're
not expressing any independent policy of
the United States the same public
pressure that Western leaders are facing
whether in this side of the Atlantic or
that side of Atlantic adds up to more of
the same it just looks too bad now the
hypocrisy is too great the double
standard is incredible it's the same
vender line that
supported Ukraine against Russia but
supported Israel genocide in Palestine
their their double standard and
hypocrisy beyond belief they're parting
the American lines because the American
president told them to do so Washington
is on a pressure spree they want natany
to wage the war the way they he they
want him to wage the war not the way the
Israeli government of Fanatics and
fascists want to wage the war but it's
going to be War nonetheless whether it
is waged American style or Israeli style
yes hopefully there will be I can't
believe I'm saying hopefully but yes
less civilian casual is the better the
the quicker the War Winds down the
better the quicker we can get to a
ceasefire of course it's better for
everyone involved but the Nan government
is not feeling any pressure only hearing
words and more words but when it comes
to Deeds the West is doing nothing to
stop that genocidal war and yet they're
saying and yet they're saying that the
situation is not acceptable so if
Germany if the European Union don't want
a ground offensive in Raa like they keep
saying that they don't want a ground
offensive in Raa to go ahead do you
think we might see them use sanctions
more than words against
Israel no no no no no no sanctions no
sanctions I mean we've heard the same
again and again you know we've been bit
from that
same poisonous bite already in the past
five months remember when they were
talking against land Invasion on the
third week of October but the same
happened genocide followed then they
said Israel will respect human rights
and if it doesn't then something got to
give nothing gave Israel continues to
get the support but it gets criticism
sometimes it gets some kind of you know
what you need to do this that and the
other thing but it it's not followed
with Deeds it's not followed with
sanctions it's not followed with
pressures it's just words and Netanyahu
has already made clear today past 24
hours that he's not going to submit to
that kind of diplomatic pressure by
Israel's allies that he's going to
continue with business as usual killing
Slaughter in Gaza ra and so how then
mwan does this complete lack of any real
International pressure bed for those
ceasefire negotiations that are going to
continue in Doha on Monday with the head
of Israel's intelligence agency
traveling to Doha what are the prospects
then for
peace okay let me tell you why this is
important right it's because Israel
doesn't mind a trans transitional
ceasefire a ceasefire for a number of
weeks whereby a lot of their captives
are released and they try to figure out
what to do about RAF how they can be
able to place the Palestinians once
again because as things stand today
Hamas leadership is not capitulating
Hamas Fighters are not raising their
hands in surrenders and the Palestinians
in Gaza are not Rising against the
against Hamas and hence Israel wants to
take its time and since there is
pressure it will accept a temporary
ceasefire whereby it can reorganize and
get a lot of these captives released
after that according to Israeli
officials they want to continue with the
war mwan thank you as always that is our
senior political analyst mwan Bashar in
Paris